chore: release extension 0.10.0 (#643)
timescale/pgai: projects/extension/RELEASE_NOTES.md

# Pgai extension release notes

## 0.10.0 (2025-04-23)

This release contains a major breaking change. The vectorizer code has been
removed from the extension and put into the [pgai python
library](/projects/pgai/README.md). We did this to allow the vectorizer
functionality to be used on more PostgreSQL cloud providers (AWS RDS, Supabase,
etc.)

> We made this change in a way that will allow current users of the vectorizer to
> continue using the feature without interruption, but they will have to modify how they
> upgrade vectorizer functionality in the future. The upgrade to this extension
> version will detach the vectorizer catalog tables and functions from the
> extension but leave them in your database.  You can then manage them from the
> python library. In particular, you can then upgrade the vectorizer with
> `pgai.install(DB_URL)` as in the new python-library-based [workflow](/docs/vectorizer/api-reference.md#install-or-upgrade-database-dependencies).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We made this change in a way that will allow current users of the vectorizer to
continue using the feature without interruption, but they will have to modify how they
upgrade vectorizer functionality in the future.

**Upgrading to 0.10.0:**
1. Run `ALTER EXTENSION name UPDATE TO '0.10.0'` to detach the vectorizer catalog tables and functions from the extension. This leaves them in your database in the ai schema, and the vectorizer will continue to work.
2. You can then manage them from the python library or cli by upgrading the vectorizer with `pgai install -d DB_URL` as described in the new python-library-based [workflow](/docs/vectorizer/api-reference.md#install-or-upgrade-database-dependencies).
3. If you don't use the model calling capabilities of pgai, you can then remove the pgai extension from your database.
```
